MM-31925 Channel Sidebar features no longer experimental (#4268)
mattermost/docs: source/help/getting-started/organizing-conversations.rst

Managing Channels
==================

Channels can be created, joined, renamed, left, marked as a favorite, muted, unmuted, and archived.

Creating a channel
------------------

To create a new Public or Private channel, select the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, then select **Create New Channel**.

    .. image:: ../../images/create-new-channel.png
    
Anyone can create Public channels or Private channels, unless the System Admin has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-creation-for>`__.

There are two ways to start a Direct or Group Message:

Select the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, then select **Open a Direct Message**.

or

Select the **+** symbol next to the **Direct Messages** category in the sidebar.

    .. image:: ../../images/write-dm.png

Joining a channel
-----------------

> Join a Public channel by selecting the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, then selecting **Browse Channels**. Search through the list of Public channels you can join, then select **Join**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To join a Public channel select the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, then select **Browse Channels**. Search through the list of Public channels you can join, then select **Join**.
```

Creating a channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Create a new Public or Private channel by selecting the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, next to the **History** arrows, then selecting **Create New Channel**.

    .. image:: ../../images/create-new-channel.png
    
Anyone can create Public channels or Private channels, unless the System Admin has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-creation-for>`__.

> You have two ways to start a Direct or Group message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to start a Direct or Group Message:
```

Select the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, next to the **History** arrows, then select **Open a Direct Message**.

or

> Select the **+** symbol next to the **Direct Messages** category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the **+** symbol next to the **Direct Messages** category in the sidebar.
```

To join a Private channel, you need to be added to the channel by a member of that channel.

Adding members to a channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Add Members**. Any member of a channel can add new members by choosing **Add** next to a user's name. Users already added to the channel will not appear in this list.

    .. image:: ../../images/add-member-to-channel.png

You can also add users to channels within their profile pop-over by choosing **Add to a Channel** and selecting the channel you want them to join.

    .. image:: ../../images/add-member-pop.png

Removing members from a channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Manage Members**. Any member of a channel can remove other members by selecting the member’s channel role, then selecting **Remove from Channel**.

    .. image:: ../../images/remove-member-from-channel.png

Naming a channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Channels can be identified in two ways:

> 1. **Channel display name:** This appears in the Mattermost user interface. On Desktop, click the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then choose **Rename Channel**. Anyone can rename the channels they belong to, unless the System Admin has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-renaming-for>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Channel display name:** This appears in the Mattermost user interface. On Desktop, select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then choose **Rename Channel**. Anyone can rename the channels they belong to, unless the System Admin has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-renaming-for>`__.
```

> 2. **Channel handle:** This is part of the channel URL. You may also change the channel handle when renaming a channel, but changing channel handles may break existing links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Channel handle:** This is part of the channel URL. You can also change the channel handle when renaming a channel, but changing channel handles may break existing links.
```

Creating a channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Create a new Public or Private channel by selecting the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, next to the **History** arrows, then selecting **Create New Channel**.

    .. image:: ../../images/create-new-channel.png
    
Anyone can create Public channels or Private channels, unless the System Admin has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-creation-for>`__.

There are two ways to start a Direct or Group Message:

> Select the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, next to the **History** arrows, then select **Open a Direct Message**.

Reviewer 2: propose bullets for this sort of thing throughout the docs,

- Option A, or
- Option B

It saves space and looks better imho

Author: @justinegeffen - An interesting data point to consider for our Style Guide. We currently separate 2 options by placing an "or" between the bulleted lines.

> Select the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, next to the **History** arrows, then select **Open a Direct Message**.

Reviewer 2: Select the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, then select **Open a Direct Message**

or

Select the **+** symbol next to the **Direct Messages** category in the sidebar.

>     .. image:: ../../images/write-dm.png

Reviewer 2: Thank you for the updated images with the new theme!

Joining a channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Join a Public channel by selecting the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar, next to the **History** arrows, then selecting **Browse Channels**. Search through the list of Public channels you can join, then select **Join**.

To join a Private channel, you need to be added to the channel by a member of that channel.

Adding members to a channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Add Members**. Any member of a channel can add new members by choosing **Add** next to a user's name. Users already added to the channel will not appear in this list.

>     .. image:: ../../images/add-member-to-channel.png

Reviewer 2: image need updating. Let's avoid using the red squares and just use the in-product hover effects to highlight the element of interest

Author: Agreed on the usage in-product hover effects over red square labelling. This image was has been updated in a previous commit.

System Admins `can archive channels in the System Console <https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/team-channel-management.html#profile>`_ without needing to be a channel member.

Unarchiving a channel
---------------------

> Search for the channel if required. Then, open the channel, select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Unarchive Channel**. System Admins and Team Admins can unarchive the Public channels or Private channels they belonged to when it was archived.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search for the channel if required. Then, open the channel, select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu and select **Unarchive Channel**. System Admins and Team Admins can unarchive Public channel or Private channel they belonged to when it was archived.
```

In addition to this, System Admins can also unarchive channels `via the CLI <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/command-line-tools.html#mattermost-channel-restore>`_ and Team Admins can unarchive them `via the API <https://api.mattermost.com/#tag/channels/paths/~1channels~1%7Bchannel_id%7D~1restore/post>`_.

Converting Public channels to Private channels (and vice versa)
---------------------------------------------------------------

Select the Public channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Convert to Private Channel**. Team and System Admins can convert Public channels to Private channels. Please note that default channels such as ``Town Square`` and ``Off-Topic`` cannot be converted to Private channels.

> When a channel is converted, its history and membership are preserved. Membership in a Private channel is by invitation only. Publicly shared files remain accessible to anyone with the link. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a channel is converted, its history and membership are preserved. Membership in a Private channel is by invitation only. Publicly-shared files remain accessible to anyone with the link. 
```

.. note::

>   Due to security concerns with sharing Private channel history, only System Admins can convert Private channels to Public channels. System Admins can access this setting in **System Console > Channels > Edit (Channel Configuration)**, or they can perform this action using the `mmctl channel modify command <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/mmctl-cli-tool.html#mmctl-channel-modify>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Due to security concerns with sharing Private channel history, only System Admins can convert Private channels to Public channels via **System Console > Channels > Edit (Channel Configuration)**. Alternatively, perform this action using the `mmctl channel modify command <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/mmctl-cli-tool.html#mmctl-channel-modify>`__.
```

To mark a channel as a favorite, open the channel:

**On desktop:** At the top of the page, select on the star icon next to the channel name.

    .. image:: ../../images/favorite-channel-desktop.png
        :alt: Mark a channel as a favorite.
       
This adds the channel to a **Favorites** list at the top of the sidebar, so it's easy to access. To remove a channel from the **Favorites** list, select the star again.

    .. image:: ../../images/favorites-list-sidebar.png
        :alt: Favorite channels in the left-hand sidebar.
       
**On mobile:** Select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Favorite**. To remove a channel from the **Favorites** list, select **Favorite** again.

Muting and unmuting a channel
-----------------------------

Select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Mute Channel**. 

Once a channel is muted:

- Email, desktop, and push notifications are disabled.
- A mute icon displays next to the channel name.

> - The channel appear at reduced opacity in the left-hand sidebar, and the channel isn't marked as unread unless you're mentioned directly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The channel appears at reduced opacity in the left-hand sidebar, and the channel isn't marked as unread unless you're mentioned directly.
```

To unmute the channel, select the channel name again to access the drop-down menu, then select **Unmute Channel**.

Navigating recently viewed channels
-----------------------------------

> Use the **History** arrows at the top of the sidebar to move back and forth through your channel history. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **History** arrows at the top of the sidebar to move through your channel history.
```

Converting Public channels to Private channels (and vice versa)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Select the Public channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Convert to Private Channel**. Team and System Admins can convert Public channels to Private channels. Please note that default channels such as ``Town Square`` and ``Off-Topic`` cannot be converted to Private channels.

When a channel is converted, its history and membership are preserved. Membership in a Private channel is by invitation only. Publicly shared files remain accessible to anyone with the link. 

.. note::

>   Due to security concerns of sharing Private channel history, only System Admins can convert Private channels to Public channels. System Admins can access this setting in **System Console > Channels > Edit (Channel Configuration)**, or they can perform this action via `CLI command <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/command-line-tools.html#mattermost-channel-modify>`__.

Reviewer: Should the CLI command be replaced with the mmctl command?

Author: Very good question, @justinegeffen! @esethna Can you confirm that we should update this documentation to reference an mmctl command instead?

**On desktop:** At the top of the page, select on the star icon next to the channel name

    .. image:: ../../images/favorite-channel-desktop.png
        :alt: Mark a channel as a favorite.
        :scale: 40
       
This adds the channel to a **Favorites** list at the top of the sidebar, so it's easy to access. To remove a channel from the **Favorites** list, select the star again.

    .. image:: ../../images/favorites-list-sidebar.png
        :alt: Favorite channels in the left-hand sidebar.
        :scale: 40
       

> **On mobile:** Select the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Favorite**. To remove a channel from the **Favorites** list, select **Favorite** again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**On mobile:** Tap the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then select **Favorite**. To remove a channel from the **Favorites** list, tap **Favorite** again.
```
